96 release change log (#43330)
microsoft/PowerToys: README.md

</details>

## ✨ What's new
**Version 0.96 (November 2025)**

For an in-depth look at the latest changes, visit the [Windows Command Line blog](https://aka.ms/powertoys-releaseblog).

**✨ Highlights**

>  - Advanced Paste now supports multiple online and on-device AI model providers: Azure OpenAI, OpenAI, Google Gemini, Mistral, Foundry Local and ollama.

Reviewer: [nit] Correct capitalisation of Ollama.

```suggestion
 - Advanced Paste now supports multiple online and on-device AI model providers: Azure OpenAI, OpenAI, Google Gemini, Mistral, Foundry Local and Ollama.
```

 - Command Palette received extensive improvements including file search filters, better clipboard history metadata, context-menu styling, and dozens of bug fixes and enhancements.
 - PowerRename can now extract and use photo metadata (EXIF, XMP) in renaming patterns like `%Camera`, `%Lens`, and `%ExposureTime`.

### Advanced Paste
 - Advanced Paste now lets you connect to multiple AI providers instead of being limited to a single OpenAI provider. See [Advanced Paste documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/powertoys/advanced-paste) for usage.

### Awake
 - The Awake countdown timer now stays accurate over long periods. Thanks [@daverayment](https://github.com/daverayment).
 - Fixed Awake context menu positioning. The fix removed the conversion of the mouse cursor from screen to client-window coordinates, instead using the raw screen coordinates returned by GetCursorPos; the context menu now appears at the correct screen position. Thanks [@lzandman](https://github.com/lzandman).

### Command Palette
 - The search field in context menus now matches the look of the Command Palette, with a smoke backdrop and improved padding.

>  - Fallback items such as math calculations or the Run command now appear in results more quickly. — Thanks [@jiripolasek](https://github.com/jiripolasek).

Reviewer: [nit] Remove all these em-dashes before the "Thanks" text. (There are quite a few of these.)

```suggestion
 - Fallback items such as math calculations or the Run command now appear in results more quickly. Thanks [@jiripolasek](https://github.com/jiripolasek).
```

### PowerRename
- PowerRename no longer crashes due to a missing resources file.
- Added photo metadata extraction support using EXIF and XMP for pattern-based renaming with camera info, GPS coordinates, and date taken.

### PowerToys Run
 - Added retry logic with exponential backoff to handle DWM composition errors during theme changes. Thanks [@jiripolasek](https://github.com/jiripolasek).
 - Update OneNote png icons to new core10 design. Thanks [@trevorNgo](https://github.com/trevorNgo).

 ### Quick Accent
 - Added diameter symbol (⌀) for Shift+O in Special Characters mode, thanks to [@anselumjuju](https://github.com/anselumjuju).

### Zoomit
 - Smooth out zoom-animation in ZoomIt by coalescing mouse-move and timer events, thanks to [@foxmsft](https://github.com/foxmsft).
 - Enable GIF support for ZoomIt, thanks to [@MarioHewardt](https://github.com/MarioHewardt).
 - Fix spelling mistakes, and refactored some literal strings to string constants, thanks to [@lzandman](https://github.com/lzandman).

> 

Reviewer: I fixed a GDI object leak and a bug with Actual Size screenshots for ZoomIt in #43375.

- Refined shortcut control visual design with improved consistency and spacing.
- Added dashboard utilities sorting by name or status.
- Made update notification InfoBar in flyout clickable for direct navigation to update page.
- Expanded installation instructions by default in README.
- Improved accessibility for shortcut conflict button with static resource-based automation properties.

### Development
- Fixed accessibility by associating controls with labels for screen readers.
- Added accessible name to Shortcut Conflicts button for screen readers.
- Excluded TitleBars from tab navigation across multiple utilities. Thanks [@jiripolasek](https://github.com/jiripolasek)!
- Migrated build infrastructure from Windows Server 2019 to Server 2022 with improved failure logging and predictable NuGet package paths.
- Configured build agents to use larger P: drive for release builds to address disk space constraints.
- Enhanced DSC v3 support by organizing resource manifests in a dedicated subfolder with PATH configuration.
- Reduced installer bundle size by 6-7MB through centralized Hybrid CRT configuration across all C++ projects.

> - Updated .NET packages to version 9.0.10 for security fixes. Thanks [@snickler](https://github.com/snickler)!

Reviewer: [nit] For the "Thanks" messages, we should standardise on whether they should end in exclamation marks or not. There are inconsistencies throughout.

</details>

## ✨ What's new
**Version 0.96 (November 2025)**

For an in-depth look at the latest changes, visit the [Windows Command Line blog](https://aka.ms/powertoys-releaseblog).

**✨ Highlights**

>  - Advanced Paste now supports multiple AI providers instead of being limited to a single OpenAI provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Advanced Paste now supports multiple online and on-device AI model providers: Azure OpenAI, OpenAI, Google Gemini, Mistral, Ollama and Foundry Local (o
```

 - A new Cursor Wrap module lets your mouse pointer move seamlessly from one edge of the screen to the opposite edge. Thanks [@mikehall-ms](https://github.com/mikehall-ms).

### Find My Mouse
 - Activating Find My Mouse no longer makes the cursor change to the busy (hourglass) icon or steals focus from your active application.

### Hosts File Editor
 - Added customizable backup settings allowing users to configure backup frequency, location, and auto-deletion policies. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti).

### Image Resizer
 - Fixed settings consistency during batch resize operations by capturing settings once before processing. Thanks [@daverayment](https://github.com/daverayment)

### Light Switch
- Refactored service with cleaner state management and debouncing for settings changes.
- Added "Off" schedule mode and changed default to disabled for new installations.
- Introduced automatic detection of Windows Settings theme changes as manual override.
- Fixed manual override boundary detection to handle offline transitions correctly.
- Enhanced service to immediately recalculate sun times when schedule mode or coordinates change.

> - Introduces new UI to allow the users to manually enter their lat/long.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Introduces new UI to allow users to manually enter their latitude and longitude in Sunrise to Sunset mode.
- Refactored service with cleaner state management for stability.
```
